# Leap

# Jobs and Camera controls

## Pick things up, put them down again

The next step for the jobs system is to add the ability to pick things up and put them down again.  It's going to involve completely changing the jobs code, which will become a common theme.

To start, I add some new entities, blocks.  I keep them in a two dimensional array, which is also the map for the game.  Now, I can give a list of commands to each figure that look a bit like this:

    (moveTo 10 10)
	(pickUp 10 10)
	(moveTo 5 5)
 	(drop   5 5)
	

PickUp removes the block from the map, and drop places it back on the map.

Now that we have that, we need to add personal job queues for each figure, so we can queue up a meaningful set of jobs for each figure.  When the personal is is empty, we move a new job from the global queue to the personal queue.

The jobs system is rapidly approaching the point where I should move it into its own file, but for now it is tangled up in the rendering code.  Hopefully because I wrote it in good functional style, breaking it apart should be easy.

HahahahAHAHAhahaha

<embed src="2pickingup.webm" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

Trying to get the correct facing turns out to be rather difficult.  I can get the correct vector, but I use Euler angles to rotate the figures to the correct direction, and figuring out those angles turns out to be surprisingly difficult.

## Camera

Happily, I had written some code for spinning the camera in the original project, so all I had to do was add pan and zoom.  It works really nicely!

<embed src="2cameracontrols.webm" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

Or rather, not that nicely.  It moves every time it receives a keypress from the operating system.  The trouble with this plan is that there is a short delay before the operating system starts repeating the keypress, and there are not a lot of repeats per second, so the movement looks jumpy.

I could write some complex code to interpolate all this, but the right thing to do is monitor for key down, and key up events.

Like this:

<embed src="2smoothcamera.webm" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

Now the only remaining problem is that the camera position is recalculated each frame, which means that for the user, the camera speed varies with the frame rate.  It would be better to recalculate the camera position a fixed number of times per second, independently of the frame rate.  This will require a significant rewrite, so it will have to wait a bit longer.
