# Drawing paths and refactoring

## Paths

After all my work on pathing last time, I wanted a nice little on-screen display of the path that a robot will follow.  I wrote about a page of code to do this, then discovered I could do it in about 6 lines by modifying the code to draw all the robots, and adding the draw path code there.

Not my most efficient hour of work, but I guess I got a nice result in the end.

<embed src="drawpaths.mov" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

## Refactoring

I once worked at a place where refactoring, and testing, were bad words.  You could yell "Fuck!" in the middle of the crowded, open plan office, and nobody would even turn their head.  It was a common occurance.

But if you whispered "test", you were in for a bad time, and "refactoring" could cause a team lead to go into a shaking fit, and then mark you down on your next performance review.

So I really enjoyed doing it on my personal project.  Refactoring, that is.  Usually it is a bit of a drag, but I wrote the code knowing I would refactor it sooner rather than later, so most functions didn't use side effects, and I avoided using mutators where possible (i.e. nothing that ends in -set! unless it was unavoidable).

I moved similar code into the same file (jobs functions go in jobs.rkt, utility functions go in utility_functions.rkt, etc), and I moved all the scene data, and handling functions into scene.rkt.  This is the start of the code that will become the level design, and save game system.

This should make it pleasant and effective to create new scenarios, as well as manage them, and share them.  For now, it is just a single file, but later on they will become directories, so I can group together resources like images, sounds, and the control data.  Save games will probably go in there as well, so people can share saves (and send bug reports) very simply.

I was surprised to discover some large chunks of code that I could rip out.  It was code that I had previously used to get the robots walking around, and was completely superceded by the new job system.  The new system is smaller, easier to understand, and much easier to modify than the old code.  I see this as validation that the jobs code is going in the right direction.

Wow, writing about refactoring is even more boring than doing it!
