# Moving to 3D

So far, the game engine has been 2D.  Everything occured on a flat map, and the pathing algorithm only tracked points with (x,y) coordinates.  There was an awkward conversion into and out of map coordinates as well, with the map coordinates being (y,x), due to the way Racket addresses arrays.

So now I have upgraded everything to (x,y,z) vectors, wrote some wrappers to do the conversion so I never have to care about it again, and got a basic 3D pathing test going.  I immediately discovered some issues with the pathing algorithm.

# That isn't right

<embed src="3dpathfail.mov" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

Not too bad, or so it seems at first.  We get to the destination.  However, there are some odd steps whenever it runs into a wall.

Those little detours it makes are the result of not using the A* algorithm.  When it hits a wall, it chooses a neighbouring square that is closest to the goal, in this case, sideways.  But after moving sideways, it discovers there are no more floor squares closer to the goal, so it goes up.  Once it has gone up, it realises that it can get closer by moving sideways, and so on.

But the bigger problem is that the robot is following the edge of the maze.  It should be going straight across the maze, over the tops of the wall.

This is not happening, because I made a mistake in calculating distances.  At this point, I hadn't noticed it because I was still thinking in 2D.  But a little bit later, it became very clear that I had a problem.

<embed src="longpathfail.mov" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

The problem turned out that I had left some old, and very wrong, code in the metric-calculating function.  It was calculating distances correctly in one direction, but not the other, meaning that I had a non-Eusclidean plane.  As a result, running *away* from the goal became "the shorter path".  It only ended up going the right way after it checked literally every other path on the map.

But now, it works better.  Mostly.

<embed src="pathsuccess.mov" width="400" height="480" controller="true">

However there is still a problem.  Sometimes, rarely, the game will freeze while calculating a path.  When I inspected it, I discovered it was calculating a very long path.  But why?

The current pathing algorithm is good, except sometimes.

The trouble with this algorithm is that if it starts going the wrong way, it will continue going the wrong way, searching the entire map before it reaches the goal.  As the map is 100x100, that's a lot of squares to search.  The game locks up waiting for the path algorithm to complete.

There's no way to avoid it now, I need to write an A* search routine.
