# Object picking

Now we need a way to let the user interact with the game.  I need to implement something so that the player can select items on the screen, and do something with them.

The problem is that we can move the camera to any angle, to look at the game board.  This makes it difficult to calculate exactly which object is under the cursor.  There are two ways to deal with this.

One way to calculate position is to do a full mathematical calculation of the position of the camera, the game board, and every object on it.  You do some raycasting to shoot a ray from the camera, through the cursor and check every object to see if it is on the line between the camera and the cursor.

The other way is much simpler.  When the user clicks, we redraw the screen, but instead of using the correct colours, we give each object on the screen a different colour.  We then take a picture of the screen, and check the colour under the cursor to see which object was clicked on.

I'm going to take the easy way out.

Object picking by colours is extremely easy to discribe, but somewhat fiddly to implement.  The main challenge is that I have to switch off all graphics improvements like shading, and aliasing, because these can alter the colour of the object.  And we're going to use the exact colour as a key to lookup objects, so if the colour changes, we will select the wrong object.

So the code to do this is actually not so complex.  We assign each object a colour based on its index number:

	[map 
		[lambda [r]
	       		[list [/ r 25] 1.0 1.0 1.0]] 
		[iota 25]]]

Then we have to switch off a lot of GL options to prevent the graphics card from modifying the colours of the objects.

	(gl-enable 'cull-face)
	(gl-disable 'lighting)
	(gl-disable 'light0)
	(gl-enable 'depth-test)
	(gl-enable 'normalize)
	[gl-disable 'color-material]

Then we draw the scene, and get the pixel under the cursor:

	[printf "Got pixel: ~a~n"  [get-gl-pixel mouseX mouseY]]
	[set! selected [matchColour [get-gl-pixel mouseX mouseY] [scene-get 'colours]]]
	[printf "selected id number: ~a~n" selected]

And that's it!  For once, doing graphics isn't so hard.

Except.

The current method causes the screen to flash into unpleasant colours for one frame.  It's good enough for a demo, but not acceptable for a production release.  The correct way to fix this is to draw the index-colour picture /offscreen/.  There are a couple of ways to do this, like drawing to an alternate buffer, or rendering to a texture, and then examining that buffer or texture to figure out the right object.

However getting all this set up is a much more complex task, even in programming language with good GL support.  I'm not interesting in banging my head against GL for a couple of days to get Render-To-Texture working reliably.

**Note to self: take pictures to demonstrate this**
